.TH ODR-ZMQ2EDI "1" "May 2023" "odr-zmq2edi" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBodr-zmq2edi\fR \- Convert an ZeroMQ stream to EDI
.SH SYNOPSIS
odr\-zmq2edi [options] <source>
.PP
<source> is a ZMQ URL that points to a ODR\-DabMux ZMQ output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
zmq2edi can receive a ZMQ ETI stream from ODR-DabMux and generate an EDI stream.
This is quite useful if your modulator wants EDI input, and your network is not 
good enough making you want to use something based on TCP.
.PP
The input socket will be reset if no data is received for 10 seconds.
It is best practice to run this tool under a process supervisor that will restart it automatically.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "The following options can be given only once:"
.TP
\fB\-w\fR <delay>
Keep every ETI frame until TIST is <delay> milliseconds after current system time.
Negative delay values are also allowed.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR <path to script>
Before starting, run the given script, and only start if it returns 0.
This is useful for checking that NTP is properly synchronised
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Drop frames where for which the wait time would be negative, i.e. frames that arrived too late.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR
Disable PFT and send AFPackets.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR <fec>
Set the FEC.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR <spread>
Configure the UDP packet spread/interleaver with given percentage: 0% send all fragments
at once, 100% spread over 24ms, >100% spread and interleave. Default 95%
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Dump the EDI to edi.debug file.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enables verbose mode.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR <alignement>
Set the alignment of the TAG Packet (default 8).
.TP
\fB\-b\fR <backoff>
Number of milliseconds to backoff after an input reset (default 5000).
.SS
The following options can be given several times, when more than one UDP destination is desired:
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <destination ip>
Set the destination ip.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <destination port>
Set the destination port.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR <source port>
Set the source port.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR <source ip>
Select the source IP in case we want to use multicast.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR <ttl>
Set the packet's TTL.

.SH SEE ALSO
odr\-dabmux(1), odr\-audioenc(1), odr\-dabmod(1)

A user guide for the mmbTools is available http://www.opendigitalradio.org/
